hey guys i'm sanna and he stumbled
across this video you're probably
wondering how to get into Harvard I know
I was
I applied from California which is
statistically one of the hardest states
for most and college and no one legacy
wasn't a captain of the sports - you
didn't play an instrument but what I did
do was spend hours researching how to
craft my application and best market
myself and my story in the process so
hopefully this will be helpful to you
guys first this is some of the best
advice I got if you only take away
something from this video let it be this
colleges don't want well-rounded
students they want a well-rounded class
so that means if they have for instance
2,000 acceptances that they're giving
out which is typically what Harvard does
between early admissions and Regular
Decision they're looking for a class
that is well-rounded they're gonna be
looking for both racial diversity
socio-economic diversity students from
different countries students of
different backgrounds students with
different interests and so if they made
up the class with 2,000 people who
practically look the same on paper that
would be a very boring class okay so the
second thing I want to talk about is
buckets so a college admissions book I
read once said that colleges sort
students
bucket says specifically think this is
true of Hartley - so everything from the
race your nationality your gender your
main interests your actual voters your
SAT your economic background everything
is sorted into a bucket and so colleges
want to take students from as many
buckets as possible so within each of
those buckets there's going to be a lot
of people the fewer people in your
bucket a caring like the more the more
unique you are the better you have in
Texas and for instance if you are from
Oklahoma that's probably a state that
Harvard doesn't get too many
applications from versus like someone
from California so Oklahoma would have a
bucket and then you're a neuroscience
major from Oklahoma so then that would
be another bucket and then your family
makes only sixty grand a year so that's
another bucket in itself it is important
to open or to distinguish between
factors you can change versus those you
cans and those you can't are pretty
obvious like erase your nationality
where you live how much your parents
making you're not sort of thing your
financial status you can't change those
things don't spend time stressing about
them the things you can change are your
stats your essays your letter of
recommendation your extracurriculars and
your transcript and those are things you
have control over so with those factors
you're going to try to make yourself
stand out within your bucket no matter
which bucket that is your application
should have a story which is a centered
around to your hook which is basically
you in a nutshell this is the one thing
about you that it's really special
and most people's hips can be summed up
in like a sentence in two and so your
whole application should reflect your
story and especially your hook for media
I crafted my application based on this
idea I as a writer
so for test scores I had you know my SAT
and my AP English scores to back it up
and an SAT Subject Tests so with scores
I was good and then with
extracurriculars I had the fact that I
had written a novel and I had won
national awards for my body short
stories and then I had also written a
screenplay
I had the scores to back it up and I had
the extra figures and I had the classes
in my common FSA I also explored my
identity as a writer and kind of my
journey throughout high school so me and
a nutshell was this self directed girl
from California who did high school her
own way who really was passionate about
her writing got published to explore
lots of different opportunities at that
and then also had this kind of
entrepreneurial streak which led her to
seek out the best mentors possible and
the my stats and essays were also pretty
good so that they backed up my whole
narrative I made myself unique I made
myself stand out in a way and that's
what you have to deal with your stories
okay so if you're still with me this
leads me to my third points
fourth point not really sure I think
it's a third point and that is snaps the
biggest myth of all is that you need
perfect slapstick in a carpet you
absolutely don't at all so if you are
ever thinking of not applying because
you don't have a 23 or you don't have a
1550 on your ass
or you didn't get all fives and your
keys stop 30 bill applied just do it you
never know if you're gonna get in scores
aren't what get you in but they are a
qualifying benchmark so basically as
long as you meet the benchmark you're
fine
each College has a different benchmark
and it's usually not unpublished
statistic but you can usually figure it
out by looking at the 25th and 75th
percentiles select the interquartile
range for anyone who's like taking shots
so for Harvard the 25th and 75th
percentiles that's between a 14,000 D
and a 1600 SATs for a 21-10 and a 2390
on the old scale so basically as long as
your scores are above a fourteen seventy
on the new scale and a 21-10 on the old
scale you're fine and this can change
too
it's kind of it changes by here so that
is also a t32 and thirty five ATT and
round a three point three to 4.0 GPA
unweighted so as long as you meet those
minimum requirements you shouldn't worry
about yourself
yeah I actually only took the SAT once
because it seemed pointless to take it
again when I had already met that
benchmark and honestly if you're in the
same situation please put your energy
into something else if you get an SAT
score that is within Harvard's range you
don't need to worry about taking SAT
if you get rejected I'm not going to be
because of your SAT score Harvard looks
at so much more than stats your scores
are just what they need to look out to
see you oh can you handle the level of
work but do you meet the minimum
requirements and if you do they won't
reject you based on that oops
it's just a benchmark it's not what gets
what this leads me to my next point
which is super important believe it or
not but many people get in who have very
low SAT scores they've got some B's in
high school they have pores on their ApS
even less I know people who have like
twos or threes on their things and they
got in like never never let yourself
fall into the pattern of thinking that
just because you may have messed up in
one area or you weren't able to take
advantage of something that because of
that aspect of your application you're
not gonna get in you can make it up in
other areas it is so easy to fall into
that pattern of thinking quick please
don't if you were fine you do not have
to be perfect in every area really you
just have to find the areas where you
shine and then just make sure you take
advantage of those make sure that you
have your hook make sure you have the
thing that makes unique and then kind of
sprinkle elements of that in throughout
your application so always try your
hardest of course but never feel that
Harvard is out of your beat just because
you might not have scored so well on any
exam for instance one of my friends who
got it was very stem focused and she did
really well in all her stem classes and
her AP classes and obviously the math
portion of the SAT but when she took AP
English she got like before or she might
have even thought to read I forgot but
she didn't do very well on her AP
English exams I think she might have
wanted me in the course and then she
didn't do so well on the writing portion
of the SAT fighter
but that didn't matter so much because
her story was about her being a woman
instead a woman in science and so she
didn't meet fives on the AP English exam
in order to back her story yeah she did
need to get a good score on the math
section of her SAT and in her AP chem
and ap BIOS APs
but she didn't need to ace the English
part so of course she tried but that
wasn't her strong suit so it didn't take
away from her application because that
fit with her narrative for me I was the
opposite you know I didn't need to get a
perfect score on my SATs exam in order
to back that up ringless made sure I got
thighs because that's that's where I
shine and same with the reading and
writing scores on the SAT I focused on
those areas my math I just had to make
sure it was benchmark as long as it was
that I was good the reason I say this is
because it gives you a little bit of
wiggle room in which to focus on the
aspects of your application in which you
really shine and where your interests
lie and instead of trying to squeeze in
an extra AP in a subject that you're
probably not even good at and don't even
like trust me
so what number 5 extra extra current
that extracurriculars can't even think
that way anymore
I just say activities I like that out of
saying extracurriculars as much as
possible because I would stumble through
that word anyway but activities for easy
OOP okay so these are the fun ones but
they can become really stressful when
you're trying to get involved in like
ten different things and become a
president in each of them all of this
stuff like stop so you don't have to do
that with activities I say go wide
he got involved in a variety of things
to show that you're not one-dimensional
like for me I had the story of me being
a writer but I also did marine biology
internships every summer because it was
actually something I was really
interested in and I studied dolphin
communication so that was like a go wide
I particularly for me go deep is where
you choose the ones where you really
shine and not swear your interest lies
and then you make sure that you're doing
as much as you can to get involved in
that and if you're interested in it that
will come pretty naturally for me that
was writing that was getting involved in
startups that was starting companies
like that was really interesting for me
into that's where my go deep was so yeah
really choose like one or two
extracurriculars to dive in deep and
these should definitely back up your
hobbies really should be your they
should make up the most significant part
of your application
okay the next essays so many people
freak out about essays but use essays to
be the most personal that you can beat
visions officers are people they want to
feel something they want to feel what
you've gone through it's your time to
speak directly to your admissions
officer it's your time to write about
really what makes you so passionate
about the things you're interested in to
explain your background really to write
about a significant portion of your life
and of your story that you can't really
get across other ways in your
application so for me that was my really
neat background this is my story of like
self-directed learning and taking all
these constants and having a stick
kind of my identity through that and I
like really poured my heart into this I
say I think I have probably 220
different jobs saved on it I started
writing it in the summer and you didn't
finish it until the night of the
deadline like that I worked on this
essay like I poured my life into this
essay my English teacher I sent it to
her and was like this actually sounds
like me is this is this me is this a
good reflection of me and she said she's
talking to crying because she actually
felt what I was going through and not
not that that's your goal but like you
don't have to have a sob story you can
make your thing like your essay funny I
remember someone saying to me if you
make your admissions officer laugh like
you got a urine if you make your
admissions officer cry your whole
family's in if you can actually take
them out of their day to day job meeting
thousands of applications you can just
take them out of that for a second and
actually make them feel that like split
second human emotion and connect with
them if there's a really good chance
than you're getting because they want to
feel something they want to they really
want to get to know you and I think
that's especially true of Harvard
admissions officers you know I talked to
mine I talked to the Dean of Admissions
Fitzsimmons and I learned how they do
the process and they they pour
everything into it they are so committed
to this they really try to get to know
you so yeah use your essay to speak
directly to the admissions officers and
to
right about your story really bu and
don't don't rely too heavily on other
people's opinions I would say get one
person to read it who knows you and then
get one person to read it who doesn't
know you at all and if they both can
come away with the essay with the same
thing then you've made your point okay
so interviews you're not as important as
you think so
don't worry for harvard specifically it
isn't so much the content of your
interview that is a factor but whether
you interviewed at all so make sure that
you are reaching out that if you're on
campus you try to get it on campus
interview that you are responding
quickly to your alumni if they contact
you you know that you're taking the
initiative to get the interview as long
as that happens you're good you don't
really have to stress if you're
contacted by an alumnus soon you make
sure you respond immediately and set up
a time to meet like coffee shops are
always good or over Skype which was what
I did with a couple of them because I
wasn't within driving distance as long
as there aren't any glaring red flags
the fact that you've did the interview
is more important than what you actually
spoke about in the interview basically
so this is how interviews and alumnus
will contact you about meeting up or
setting up a Skype phone call and then
when you do the interview you'll just
talk for a little bit your interviewer
will probably take some notes because
after they have to write up the summary
which they then send to the college and
they will put it in your folder when the
time comes through applications should
be reviewed by the entire admissions
committee
pull it all of your files up on a screen
as well as the notes from your
interviewer so basically you want your
interviewer to advocate on your behalf
when writing to Harvard and you want
them to back up everything that's in
your application especially your hook so
make sure you talk about that and what
makes you unique because they will come
away from the interview with that in
mind and they will write it down and
then the admissions officers will read
it and say wow okay someone else thought
this was a really neat person - okay
this has got this backs up the story how
well you feel in an interview is not a
determinant you whether you get in or
not
trust me play I actually applied to you
funny enough and I thought that was the
best interview I've ever done and I
didn't it and it wasn't because of my
interview but you know I've walked away
on cloud not and I was like wow this
person really got me but in the end it
didn't really make that much of a
difference so you know my Harvard
interview actually was three hours long
which was the longest interview I've
ever had and I don't think that's
necessarily isn't a determinant of
whether it's going well or not either
because I think my guy was just very
slow with writing and he approached it
like a conversation so I had some
interviews where they just asked
questions rapid-fire and then I just
like responded and then I had other ones
where it was like a lot more like a
conversation and we talked about like
Harry Potter so they're going to be very
different try not to compare them for
the Harvard one specifically just make
sure you are stressing your hook you're
just talking about what makes you unique
and then just you know be be personable
be a portion base the interview is not
going to make or break your application
it's just going to back up
that's pretty much it for this video I
hope this video has given you some hope
and inspired you a little bit when I was
applying I dreamed that there was a
video out there somewhere like this that
really explain all the different parts
of the application and specifically how
to get in and specifically for Harvard
to because they didn't have those type
of videos it was kind of like this big
mix and oh what goes on behind the
screen leave comments down below with
anything about the college process and
Harvard student fee and I would be happy
to answer them
and finally just remember to breathe
everything's gonna be okay don't I know
you probably like from your position
everything does look okay but honestly
after you apply you kind of just get the
sense of clarity that you're going to be
okay where I'm gonna end up and you know
College does not define whether you go
to an Ivy League school or you go to
Community College it doesn't make you a
better person or a lesser person you are
yourself you're great you are worthy of
everything and college is just one
little thing in your life so I hope you
get in I'm like rooting for all of you
guys and you know if you do maybe I can
meet you a visit ah so you can come say
hi on campus I would love that please
like and share this video if it's been
helpful and make sure to subscribe
because I'm gonna be posting a lot of
Harvard related videos like moving logs
and dorm tour and stuff so when I get on
campus
comment down below video requests too if
you want
so yeah that's all I have for you guys
this video is probably 25 minutes long
by now or more so I'm sorry about that
thank you for watching all the way
through I hope this helps you I love you
guys
I'm rooting for you I hope you get in so
yeah I'll see you in my next video bye
[Music]
yup fail it's okay you can apply that
would be weird
because they're their enemies I don't
know
yuck fail or apply I don't care go to
yeah it's good
so it's all good here don't worry